Black hole, 400-mile spaceship.
Time is moving faster at this
end of the ship than the other.
How much longer, Doctor?
To survive, they are
what we must all become.
Please tell me you didn't?
I have been so looking
forward to meeting you.
I waited for you.
Everyone, under their beds, now!
Again?
Alit, get under your bed...
and stay there!
It's the scarecrows. New ones.
It's OK. We'll be OK.
Save your ammo!
Wait for it!
Fire!
- sync and corrections by Dr. C -
- www.addic7ed.com -
_
How many times have you died?
How many different ways?
Have you burned?
I know you've fallen.
Have you ever drowned?
Have you felt the blade?
I suppose what we're really
asking, my dear, is...
Well...
Any requests?
So, I imagine you're the
next one along, then?
I think so.
I'm a bit hazy on the whole
regeneration thing, I'm afraid.
You mean, I'm going
to turn into a woman,
and you don't even
remember it happening?
Oh!
- Am I a woman now?
- Well, kind of, yeah.
Hold me!
- Kiss me!
- Make me!
Do you two want to be alone?
Which, in your case, would mean
more than it usually does.
Ugh, Grandad's back.
We've been debating the
best way to kill you.
Where's Bill?
Well, we thought we might
chuck you off the roof,
but I wasn't sure how many
regenerations you had left.
Yeah, we could have been up and
down the stairs all night!
We could shoot you... but
that's a bit vanilla.
- But old school, nice for a change.
- For a change.
I said, where is Bill?
Well, if we told you that,
I'm afraid you'd be
really, really upset.
So...
She's right behind you!
Look, there's Bill.
Dead, dismembered, fed through a grinder
and squeezed into a Cyberman,
doomed to spend an eternal afterlife
as a bio-mechanical psycho-zombie...
it was hilarious.
Ten years you spent up there, chatting.
You missed her by two hours!
Ripped out her heart,
threw it in to a bin,
and burned it all away.
He's internalising.
I love it when he's Mr Volcano.
The last time I saw you, you
were on your way to Gallifrey.
Well, I didn't stay... why would I stay?
So they cured your little
condition and kicked you out.
It was a mutual kicking me out.
Somehow you ended up in this dump.
You never could drive.
You wouldn't understand.
Well, let's see how I do.
Your TARDIS got stuck,
you killed a lot of people,
took over the city,
lived like a king until they
rebelled against your cruelty,
and ever since then
you've been hiding out,
probably in disguise,
because everybody knows
your stupid round face.
Round?!
- It's a little bit.
- Shut up!
Do you want to see my city, Doctor?
Do you want to see what happens
when you're too late to save your
little friend and everybody else?
See?
This used to be just a hospital...
now it's mass production.
The Cyber Foundries.
The whole city is a machine
to turn people into Cybermen.
What do you think? Exciting, isn't it?
Watching the Cybermen getting started.
They always get started.
They happen everywhere there's people...
Mondas, Telos, Earth,
Planet 14, Marinus.
Like sewage and smartphones
and Donald Trump...
some things are just inevitable.
Doctor...
Doctor, have you done something?
What's happening?
People get the Cybermen wrong...
there's no evil plan, no evil genius.
Just parallel evolution.
Doctor, what have you done?
People plus technology minus humanity.
The internet, cyberspace, Cybermen.
Always read the comments, because
one day they'll be an army.
Look!
They're coming!
They're coming for us!
This doesn't make any sense!
Doesn't it?
These Cybermen are primitive...
they're programmed to track human
beings and convert them...
they home in on human life signs only.
You two, you should know by now.
When you're winning,
and I'm in the room,
you're missing something.
What have we missed??
You shouldn't have hit me, Missy.
I was waiting for my chance.
Computer,
containing the algorithm
defining human life signs...
I only had time to change one detail.
A single number. One to a two.
One heart to two hearts.
I expanded the definition of humanity.
Took 'em a while to update the net...
but here we go!
Welcome to the menu.
Now they think that
we count as humans...
and they're going to
fix that in a hurry!
There must be other ways up here...
we can't cover them all!
You can't fight a whole city.
You know the stories...
there's only ever been one way
to stop that many Cybermen.
Me!
Then do it... stop them!
Begging for your life already?
That's a new record.
I'm not begging you. I'd
rather die than beg you!
- Lucky day, then.
- I can do this.
They're not difficult, they're Cybermen.
Knock yourself out.
Your wish is my command.
I was secretly on your side
all along, you silly sausage.
Is that true?
Don't spoil the moment.
Seriously, I need to know. Is that true?
It's hard to say, I...
I'm in two minds.
Fortunately, the other
one's unconscious.
Nardole, have you been useful?
Yeah. Found
this in the loading bay.
Shuttle craft.
Get junior up there.
Ooh, you hit me really hard.
You're telling me... I think
I've still got the bump!
Right. First things first...
Agh!
Bill?
What was that, Doctor?
You'll only slow us down?
Yeah, I think you're right.
The Doctor's dead.
He told me he'd always hated you.
Let's go.
No.
The Doctor's dead.
He told me he'd always hated you.
Yeah, I heard you the first time!
- Oh, tedious!
- Oi!
Look, we need to get away from here,
find a hole in the roof... or make one.
Is there a great big gun on the front?
That would be good.
I don't think we're going anywhere.
Bill's back!
Bill.
I will fix this.
I will get you back again, I swear.
What level are we on?
Must be one of the solar farms.
Hologram sky, bit of atmosphere.
Who are you?
That's the last floor we can
bust through... engine's blown.
Hello, little girl.
We're from downstairs, and, er...
I think we're going to need your help.
Sorry you have to stay out here.
You'd frighten the children.
Where am I?
How did I...?
Sorry, I...
I can't remember...
The Doctor put you to
sleep, you needed rest.
What am I doing in a barn?
What's wrong?
Sorry, it's just...
Sorry, what?
The Doctor has explained that
you're not dangerous, but...
it's difficult.
What's difficult?
Where is the Doctor? I need to...
His injuries are being tended to.
Injuries?!
I want to see the Doctor!
I need to speak to him.
Hello?
Hello.
Everyone's too scared to talk to you...
but I'm not.
Why are they scared?
Come on, you lot,
put your backs into it.
Remember the Alamo!
Oh, maybe not.
Nardole, you're working them too hard.
This isn't work, it's war.
Operation Exodus.
They're looking for fresh
meat, and you're it.
Is that it?
I really wouldn't harm you, you know.
I know.
That... is not... me.
I'm sorry.
I am Bill Potts.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
I am Bill Potts!
Hey, hey, hey, hey!
Hello, Bill Potts.
Doc... tor.
I'm sorry. I gave her a mirror.
Oh, no, don't be sorry.
You were being kind.
Nothing wrong with kind. Jelly baby?
Thank you.
You're welcome.
- Bye.
- Toodle-oo.
What was that? In the mirror?
Er...
A Cyberman.
What's a Cyberman?
A technologically augmented human being,
designed to survive in
a hostile environment.
Perfectly sound idea...
unfortunately all they want to do
is to turn everyone
else into Cybermen too.
They go viral.
Why?
They consider themselves to be
an improvement, an upgrade.
No.
Why do I see a Cyberman in the mirror?
What do you remember?
There's quite a lot! You know?
I was down there for ten years.
And then, one day...
they took you to the conversion theatre.
- Do you remember that?
- No.
Bits of it...
You turned up.
Do you remember what they did to you?
Nothing.
Look at me. I'm fine.
I'm fine!
You are... so strong.
You're amazing.
Your mind has rebelled
against the programming.
It's built a wall around itself...
a castle made of you...
and you're standing on the battlements,
saying, "No! No, not me."
What are you talking about?
All that time, living under the Monks...
you learned to hang on to yourself.
But I'm... I'm fine, look at me!
Bill...
...what you see is not you.
Your mind is acting like
a perception filter.
You still see yourself
as you used to be.
Used to be?
- It won't last forever...
- What do you mean, used to be?!
Bill, I'm sorry, but you
can't be angry any more.
A temper is a luxury
you can no longer...
Why can't I?
Why can't I be angry?!
Bill... please!
You left me alone for ten years,
don't tell me I can't be angry!
Because of that.
That's why.
Because you're a Cyberman.
Right, everyone, back to work.
Nothing to see here, somebody
broke the barn, no biggie.
Come on, defences don't
build themselves.
It's OK, they're just frightened.
People are always going to be
afraid of me, aren't they?
Aren't they?
What is that? Engine oil?
No. It's an actual tear...
...but it shouldn't be.
Doctor!
Right, while you've been
here chatting up Robo-Mop,
me and... me have been busy.
We've found it.
Oh, hello, my dear.
My God, you were so boring
for all those years...
...but it was worth every day of it...
for this!
Bill, don't let him upset you.
Though, didn't you used to be a woman?
I'm going to be a woman, fairly soon.
Any tips?
Or, maybe... I dunno, old bras?
I am not upset.
Oh. Well, doesn't that take
all the fun out of cruelty?
Might as well rile a fridge!
Come on, this way!
Why are there so many
children in that house?
Small community, several
hundred at most.
So, they keep the children
together for their protection.
Those things make it up here sometimes,
they try to take the children...
You all right?
Yes, fine.
What was that?
They target the children
because conversion is easier
with a younger donor...
the brains are fresher,
and because the bodies are
smaller, there's less to...
Less to what?
Less to throw away.
You said...
I remember, you said you could fix this.
That you'd get me back.
Did you say that?
I did say that, yes.
- Were you lying?
- No.
Were you right?
No.
Bill?
We're not going to get
out of this one, are we?
Well...
I don't know.
There are always possibilities.
I can feel it.
In my head, the programming.
The Cybermen are taking
me over, piece by piece.
It's like I'm hanging on in a hurricane,
and I can't hang on forever.
Bill, look, whatever it takes...
No, I want you to know, as my friend...
I don't want to live if
I can't be me any more.
Do you understand?
Yeah.
And that's not possible, is it?
Well, I'll tell you what
else isn't possible.
A Cyberman crying.
Where there's tears, there's hope.
Come on.
Weird.
How you don't remember any of this.
The two of us together puts
the timelines out of sync...
you can't retain your memories,
so I don't have them.
You absolutely had to
bring her, did you?
"Her"?!
It's a Cyberman now.
Yes, sorry.
Becoming a woman's one thing...
but have you got...
empathy?
Where is it?
Lift shaft right here.
Hologram.
Mustn't ruin the pretty forest.
It's a wonder more people
don't turn to genocide!
And the doors.
This is how we evacuate the children.
There have to be more
lifts, quite close.
We know Operation Exodus is
ready, we can't hang around here.
What are you doing?!
You just called the lift!
Yeah, well, we're going
to need them, aren't we?
The lift was downstairs...
and quite possibly not empty.
Stand aside.
Do as she says.
"Do as she says"!
Is the future going to be all girl?
We can only hope.
Fire!
Kill it, kill it, kill it!
Kill it, kill it. Kill it.
Missy, sonic the lift, keep it here!
Why's it different? Why
does it look like that?
It evolved.
Exactly. Since we left,
they've built a weapons-grade
version to come after us.
And we just gave our position away.
Well done, the genius twins!
It doesn't matter... we can
still get out of here.
We go take the lift right to the
top and escape in your TARDIS.
We could evacuate the Waltons back
there, if you're feeling ridiculous.
We can't go back to the bridge.
We can only go four or five
floors up at the most.
The further we move up the ship,
the slower time moves for us
and the faster it moves
for the Cybermen.
By the time we get to the bridge,
they'll have had thousands of
years to work out how to stop us.
There is no safe way to
get back to the TARDIS...
it's a mathematical impossibility.
Operation Exodus.
Troops to attack phase.
Nardole, what is that?
- Tell me, what is it?
- Doctor?
The Cybermen don't have fear
but they know how to use it.
Operation Exodus. They're announcing
their arrival, they're coming.
The Cybermen are coming.
How long till they get here?
200 miles of time-dilated spaceship.
According to my calculations,
we need a plan, quick.
You realise this is hopeless, don't you?
Oh, I was hoping someone would say that.
For a moment there I was
feeling a glimmer of purpose.
But do we have long enough?
They're Cybermen, there's no
such thing as long enough.
Nardole, look at it, they've got armour!
We don't have guns that
can shoot through armour.
Look. Give me one of them rifles.
Dearest, I've been thinking.
We need your TARDIS.
We can't go up, but we can go down.
Your TARDIS is right at the
bottom of the ship, isn't it?
- Well, I suppose.
- Is it, or isn't it?
What's that?
We're on a spaceship, remember?
That's a service duct. Rusted shut.
Think you could get angry with it?
Is that windmill important?
Why?
No reason.
See that bush over there?
Shoot it.
Think you're quite something, don't you?
- I try not to miss the obvious.
- How was that possible?
Because this is not the countryside.
This is a spaceship.
- It's my TARDIS!
- Our TARDIS.
And it's right in the middle
of a city full of Cybermen.
- They are all coming here.
- And it doesn't work!
Because?
If it fooled you, it
will fool the Cybermen.
They're robots, but they've
got monkey brains.
You can always fool a monkey brain
with a little bit of theatre.
I landed here, I had trouble taking off.
The black hole?
Too close to the event horizon.
And you screwed up, you went too fast!
I blew the dematerialisation circuit.
Which reminds me, funny
thing happened to me once!
What?
A very long time ago, a very scary
lady threw me against a wall
and made me promise to always,
always carry a spare
dematerialisation circuit.
I don't remember much about her now
but she must have made
quite an impression.
You know you basically
have me to thank for this.
You're welcome.
By the way, is it wrong that I...
Yes! Very.
I don't understand.
Well, it's very simple.
The Cybermen have removed all
fear from their hearts and minds.
But you, Alit, you are
going to put it all back.
I've never met anyone like you.
So where are you from?
I don't know. I was sort of found.
On a doorstep?
Who loved you?
I probably should tell you...
I'm not human.
I'll try anything once.
No, stop, it's Bill, it's Bill!
I'm so sorry.
I... under... stand.
Listen...
I don't suppose...
We have a maximum of ten
minutes before they attack.
Is it time?
- Nardole?
- We're ready.
Is that my gun?
No, no. I don't like guns.
I've got a better idea.
- Are you good at throwing?
- Better than all the boys!
Then how about humanity's first weapon?
Tempting, isn't it?
Listen, me and sis are off now,
but we were kind of wondering,
what's your plan, Doc?
Because whatever you've
got, you can't save them.
There's another solar farm,
five levels above us.
If I can get all the children up
there, and most of the adults...
Then the Cybermen will find them again.
It's the best I can do, so I'm doing it.
- Do you have a problem with that?
- You can't win.
I know. And?
Come on, Lady Version, I honestly
don't know what you see in him.
Likewise!
No.
No!
When I say no, you
turn back around! Hey!
I'm going to be dead in a few hours,
so before I go, let's have this out.
You and me, once and for all.
Winning? Is that what
you think it's about?
I'm not trying to win.
I'm not doing this because
I want to beat someone,
or because I hate someone, or
because I want to blame someone.
It's not because it's fun and God
knows it's not because it's easy.
It's not even because it works,
because it hardly ever does.
I do what I do, because it's right.
Because it's decent.
And above all, it's kind.
It's just that.
Just kind.
If I run away today,
good people will die.
If I stand and fight,
some of them might live.
Maybe not many, and maybe not for long.
Hey, you know,
maybe there's no point
in any of this at all.
But it's the best I can do,
so I'm going to do it.
And I'll stand here doing
it till it kills me.
You're going to die too.
Some day.
How will that be? Have
you thought about it?
What would you die for?
Who I am is where I stand.
And where I stand...
...is where I fall.
Stand with me. These
people are terrified.
Maybe we can help a little.
Why not, just at the end, just be kind?
See this face? Take a
good, long look at it.
This is the face that didn't
listen to a word you just said.
Missy. Missy.
You've changed.
I know you have, and I know
what you're capable of.
Stand with me, it's
all I've ever wanted.
Me too.
But no. Sorry. Just... no.
But thanks for trying.
Hello.
You will not be harmed.
You will be upgraded.
No, thanks.
Alit, let's go!
Do you get it now?
This whole floor, under the soil,
it's fuel lines and fusion turbos.
And if you happen to be a
genius with insane computer
skills you can remote-spark
a critical failure and...
- Boom!
You weren't listening to a
word of that, were you?
No, I'm still not getting it.
Incoming, about 120 feet.
On it. Three! Two! One!
So, any second now,
the Cybermen will decide that
we have significant weaponry.
Awesome weaponry, the
ultimate apple upgrade.
Which means that they will change
their campaign parameters.
How's that?
Up till now this has
been a mercy mission.
A what?
They want to upgrade you.
That's why they're
coming for your children... but now
they think we're a military target.
They'll fall back, regroup, and
plan a much bigger assault.
Oh, good-oh!
Yes, good. Because they'll stop
tracking the children, which means...
They're moving back!
Time to go.
But we're surrounded!
I love being surrounded. It
means everyone's looking at me.
Hazran, let's get going.
Right, then, come on, you lot,
everybody down to the cellar!
Nardole, I want you to
lead the evacuation.
What? No.
There's another solar farm on floor 502,
there should be enough
livestock in the cryogene...
You need me with you!
Thanks for all the software,
I'll take it from here.
Sir, with respect, I'm
worried about your plan.
Plan, what plan?
I think as soon as this place
is evacuated, you're going
to blow the whole floor, killing
as many Cybermen as you can.
No, course not. I won't
do that until I've left.
- Liar, it can't be done remotely.
- You couldn't do it remotely.
Neither could you.
And more to the point
you are not sending me
up there to babysit a
load of smelly humans.
Yeah, well, I'm afraid that's
exactly what I'm doing.
This is me we're talking about.
Me. You know what I was like.
If there's more than three people
in a room, I start a black market.
Send me with them,
I'll be selling their own spaceship
back to them once a week.
Please, I would rather stay
down here and explode.
- You go and farm the humans.
- Listen.
One of us has to stay down here and
blow up a lot of silly tin men,
and one of has to go up there and
look after a lot of very scared
people, day after day, for the rest
of their lives, and keep them safe.
Now the question is this, Nardole,
which one of us is stronger?
Damn.
My condolences.
I'm going to name a town after you.
A really rubbish one.
- I'm counting on it.
- And probably a pig.
Young lady, you're coming with me.
No arguments... may I remind you I am
still empowered to kick your arse.
You'd have to go back down to
that hospital and find it, then.
Look, Bill...
My arse got kicked a long time
ago, and there's no going back.
All I've got left is
returning the favour.
Oh, great. She's allowed to explode.
- You sure?
- You know I am.
I don't know what to say.
You'll think of the right words later.
Doctor.
Bill.
You're wrong, you know? Quite wrong.
I never will be able to find the words.
Right, everyone,
I need you to be big, I
need you to be brave
and I need you to follow me.
Right, come on, then, hop in.
Straight down.
Come here.
I'm sorry?
Come here, I said.
Seriously? Are we really
going to do this?
I loved being you. Every second of it.
Oh, the way you burn. Like a sun.
Like a whole screaming world on fire.
I remember that feeling,
and I always will.
And I will always miss it.
Now that was really very nicely done.
Thank you.
It's good to know I
haven't lost my touch.
You deserve my best.
Oh, they love to advertise.
We have to keep them away from
the house till everyone's clear.
We've got to buy them time.
All right, back there?
Hazran, keep them moving.
They'll attack on both sides.
I'll take the back, yeah?
Yeah.
This is it, I'm afraid.
So, if there's anything
we ought to be saying...
I can't think of anything, can you?
No.
But, hey...
you know how I'm usually all about women
and kind of people my own age.
Yeah?
Glad you knew that!
Without hope. Without witness.
Without reward.
- How long do I have?
- Oh, I was precise.
You'll be able to make
it back to your TARDIS,
maybe even get a cuppa, though
it might leak a little.
And then regenerate... into you.
Welcome to the sisterhood.
Missy, seriously, why?
Oh, because he's right. Because
it's time to stand with him.
It's where we've always been going,
and it's happening now, today.
It's time to stand with the Doctor.
No. Never.
Missy! I will never
stand with the Doctor!
Yes, my dear, you will.
Don't bother trying to regenerate,
you got the full blast.
You see, Missy. THIS is where
we've always been going.
This is our perfect ending. We
shoot ourselves in the back.
OK, to the lifts... floor 502.
Squeeze as many in as you
can, we only get one trip.
They'll take years to get back here.
Telos! Sealed you into your ice tombs!
Voga!
Canary Wharf!
Planet 14!
Every single time, you lose!
Even on the Moon!
Hello. I'm the Doctor.
Doctors... are... not... required.
I'm not a doctor. I am the Doctor.
The original, you might say.
Doctor, Doctor, let it go.
Time enough.
Pity. No stars.
I hoped there'd be stars.
They still might come, your friends.
No. No, I don't think so.
What about the Cybermen?
Well, the Doctor's
destroyed most of them
so it will take them a while to
regroup, before they find us again.
And then what?
Well, I'm sure I'll think of something.
Nardole, Alit! Hazran
says the food's ready.
Right. Come on. Let's
go and find the others.
- You know Hazran?
- Yes.
I think she likes you.
She's only human.
Promise you won't go?
Promise.
Am I dead?
Does that feel dead to you?
You're like me now. It's just
a different kind of living.
How did you find me?
I left you my tears, remember?
I don't think they're mine.
I know when you're crying them.
Time to go.
But the Doctor, we can't just leave him.
Of course we can't. And
we're not going to.
I suppose this is the only
place he'd rest in peace.
If there's any place he'd do that.
How can you fly the TARDIS?
I'm the pilot. I can fly anything!
Even you!
So I'm like you now. I'm
not human any more.
I can make you human again.
It's all just atoms, you can
rearrange them any way you like.
I can put you back home,
you can make chips,
and live your life, or
you can come with me.
It's up to you, Bill.
But before you make up your mind...
...let me show you around.
Back in time for tea?
If you want.
You know what, old man?
I'm never going to believe
you're really dead.
Because one day everyone's just
going to need you too much.
Until then.
It's a big universe.
But I hope I see you again.
Where there's tears, there's hope.
Just one thing, I've been through a
lot since the last time we met...
...so I'll show you around.
- Doctor!
Doctor!
Sontarans! Perverting the
course of human history.
I don't want to go!
When the Doctor...
was me!
When the Doctor was me.
It's starting, I'm regenerating.
No! No! No! No! No! No!
Where have you taken me?
If you're trying to make a
point, I'm not listening.
I don't want to change again.
Never again!
I can't keep on being somebody else!
Wherever it is, I'm staying!
No!
I will not change.
I will not change. I will not!
No, no, no, the whole
thing's ridiculous.
Hello? Is someone there?
- Who is that?
- I'm the Doctor.
The Doctor. Oh, I don't think so.
No, dear me, no.
You may be a doctor,
but I am the Doctor.
The original, you might say!
- sync and corrections by Dr. C -
- www.addic7ed.com -